Doc: Add blogpost for honor PV reclaim policy fix (#30556)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2021-11-18-persistentvolume-reclaim-policy-improvements.md

```
persistentvolumeclaim "example-vanilla-block-pvc" deleted
```

The PV object from the cluster also gets deleted. When attempting to retrieve the PV
it will be observed that the PV is no longer found:

```
kubectl get pv pvc-6791fdd4-5fad-438e-a7fb-16410363e3da
```

```
Error from server (NotFound): persistentvolumes "pvc-6791fdd4-5fad-438e-a7fb-16410363e3da" not found
```

Although the PV is deleted the underlying storage resource is not deleted, and
needs to be removed manually.

To sum it up, the reclaim policy associated with the Persistent Volume is currently
ignored under certain circumstance. For a `Bound` PV-PVC pair the ordering of PV-PVC
deletion determines whether the PV reclaim policy is honored. The reclaim policy 
is honored if the PVC is deleted first, however, if the PV is deleted prior to 
deleting the PVC then the reclaim policy is not exercised. As a result of this behavior,
the associated storage asset in the external infrastructure is not removed.

## PV reclaim policy with Kubernetes v1.23

The new behavior ensures that the underlying storage object is deleted from the backend when users attempt to delete a PV manually.

> **The fix is introduced as an alpha feature in 1.23 under the feature-gate `HonorPVReclaimPolicy`
> which is turned `off` by default**. You would also need to **update the `external-provisioner` 
> to the `v4.0.0` and enable the feature gate.**

Reviewer: Is this right:
```suggestion
**Kubernetes v1.23 doesn't enable the fix by default**. To get the corrected behavior,
update the CSI
[`external-provisioner`](https://github.com/kubernetes-csi/external-provisioner)
to `v4.0.0` or later, and enable the `HonorPVReclaimPolicy`
[feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) for the
`external-provisioner`.

If you're not using a CSI driver to integrate with your storage backend, the fix isn't
available. The Kubernetes project doesn't have a current plan to fix that bug for in-tree
storage drivers: the future of those in-tree drivers is deprecation and migration to CSI.
```
?

#### How does it work?

> The new behavior is achieved by adding a finalizer `external-provisioner.volume.kubernetes.io/finalizer` on new and existing PVs, the finalizer is only removed after the storage from backend is deleted.

Reviewer: How does this work for in-tree persistent volume types? (perhaps the answer is: it doesn't and for in-tree storage handlers, there is no plan to fix the bug)

Author: The fix does not apply to in-tree volumes, there is an ongoing conversation to fix it for in-tree volumes in beta.

  creationTimestamp: "2021-11-17T19:28:56Z"
  finalizers:
  - kubernetes.io/pv-protection
  - external-provisioner.volume.kubernetes.io/finalizer
  name: pvc-a7b7e3ba-f837-45ba-b243-dec7d8aaed53
  resourceVersion: "194711"
  uid: 087f14f2-4157-4e95-8a70-8294b039d30e
spec:
  accessModes:
  - ReadWriteOnce
  capacity:
    storage: 1Gi
  claimRef:
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
    name: example-vanilla-block-pvc
    namespace: default
    resourceVersion: "194677"
    uid: a7b7e3ba-f837-45ba-b243-dec7d8aaed53
  csi:
    driver: csi.vsphere.vmware.com
    fsType: ext4
    volumeAttributes:
      storage.kubernetes.io/csiProvisionerIdentity: 1637110610497-8081-csi.vsphere.vmware.com
      type: vSphere CNS Block Volume
    volumeHandle: 2dacf297-803f-4ccc-afc7-3d3c3f02051e
  persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy: Delete
  storageClassName: example-vanilla-block-sc
  volumeMode: Filesystem
status:
  phase: Bound
```

The presence of the finalizer prevents the PV object from being removed from the
cluster. As stated previously, the finalizer is only removed from the PV object
after it is successfully deleted from the storage backend. To learn more about

> finalizers please refer to [Using Finalizers to Control Deletion](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/05/14/using-finalizers-to-control-deletion/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
finalizers, please refer to [Using Finalizers to Control Deletion](/blog/2021/05/14/using-finalizers-to-control-deletion/).
```

policy needs to honored on PV deletion.

With the recent Kubernetes v1.23 release, an alpha feature lets you configure your
cluster to behave that way and honor the configured reclaim policy.

## How did reclaim work in previous Kubernetes releases?

[PersistentVolumeClaim](/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#Introduction) (or PVC for short) is
a request for storage by a user. A PV and PVC are considered [Bound](/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#Binding)
if there is a newly created PV or a matching PV is found. The PVs themselves are
backed by a volume allocated by the storage backend. 

Normally, if the volume is to be deleted, then the expectation is to delete the
PVC for a bound PV-PVC pair. However, there are no restrictions to delete a PV
prior to deleting a PVC.

First, I'll demonstrate the behavior for clusters that are running an older version of Kubernetes.

#### Create PVC and wait for it to get bound

Create the PVC defined by a `pvc.yaml`
```
kubectl create -f pvc.yaml 
```
The following output is seen when the PVC is created:
```
persistentvolumeclaim/example-vanilla-block-pvc created

> ```

Reviewer 2: I don't know if it is useful to show lines 37-43 as the content of pvc.yaml is not displayed.  It's probably sufficient to just show an existing bound PVC/PV.

^C
```

Retrieving the PV:
```
kubectl get pv pvc-6791fdd4-5fad-438e-a7fb-16410363e3da
```

It can be observed that the PV is in `Terminating` state
```
NAME                                       CAPACITY   ACCESS MODES   RECLAIM POLICY   STATUS        CLAIM                               STORAGECLASS               REASON   AGE
pvc-6791fdd4-5fad-438e-a7fb-16410363e3da   5Gi        RWO            Delete           Terminating   default/example-vanilla-block-pvc   example-vanilla-block-sc            2m23s
```

#### Delete PVC

```
kubectl delete pvc example-vanilla-block-pvc
```

The following output is seen if the PVC gets successfully deleted:
```
persistentvolumeclaim "example-vanilla-block-pvc" deleted
```

The PV object from the cluster also gets deleted. When attempting to retrieve the PV
it will be observed that the PV is no longer found:

```
kubectl get pv pvc-6791fdd4-5fad-438e-a7fb-16410363e3da
```

```
Error from server (NotFound): persistentvolumes "pvc-6791fdd4-5fad-438e-a7fb-16410363e3da" not found
```

Although the PV is deleted the underlying storage resource is not deleted, and
needs to be removed manually.

> To sum it up, Reclaim policy associated with the Persistent Volume is currently

Reviewer 2: Reclaim policy -> the reclaim policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To sum it up: if you use Kubernetes v1.22 or earlier, a reclaim policy associated
with a PersistentVolume is
```

“currently” is going to be misleading here.

ignored under certain circumstance. For a `Bound` PV-PVC pair the ordering of PV-PVC
deletion determines whether the PV reclaim policy is honored. The reclaim policy 
is honored if the PVC is deleted first, however, if the PV is deleted prior to 

> deleting the PVC then the Reclaim policy is not exercised. As a result of this behavior,

Reviewer 2: Reclaim policy -> reclaim policy

the associated storage asset in the external infrastructure is not removed.

> ## Volume reclaim with Kubernetes v1.23

Reviewer 2: Volume reclaim -> PV reclaim policy
